## 1. Create a Deployment named my-deployment1 using the nginx image
```bash
 kubectl create deployment my-deployment1 --image=nginx
```
 
__*kubectl*__: The command-line tool for interacting with the Kubernetes API.

__*create deployment*__: Tells Kubernetes that you want to create a new Deployment. A Deployment is a Kubernetes object that manages a set of replicated Pods, ensuring that the specified number of replicas are running and updated.

__*my-deployment1*__: It is the name of the Deployment being created. In this case, the Deployment is named my-deployment1.

__*--image=nginx*__: It specifies the container image used for the Pods managed by this Deployment. The nginx image is a popular web server and reverse proxy server. 




## 2. Expose the deployment as a service
```
  kubectl expose deployment my-deployment1 --port=80 --type=NodePort --name=my-service1
```
It exposes the my-deployment1 Deployment as a Service named my-service1, making it accessible on port 80 through a NodePort. NodePort services allow external traffic to access the service.

## 3. Lists all services in the default namespace. Services provide a stable IP address and DNS name for accessing a set of pods
```
 kubectl get services
```
This command lists all the services in the default namespace, including nginx-service, and provides details such as the ClusterIP, NodePort, and target port.



## 4. Get the list of pods
```
kubectl get pods
```
This command displays all pods, including those created by the my-deployment1 Deployment.


## 5. Show labels
 ```
kubectl get pod <pod-name> --show-labels
```
This command will list the labels associated with the specified pod, helping you identify its attributes and categorization within your Kubernetes cluster.


## 6. Label the pod
```
kubectl label pods <pod-name> environment=deployment
```
The command is used in Kubernetes to label a specific pod with the key-value pair *environment=deployment* . This label helps categorize and manage pods based on their deployment environment, making it easier to organize and select Kubernetes objects within the cluster.


 ## 7. Show logs
```
kubectl logs <pod-name>
```
This command retrieves and displays the logs generated by the specified pod, allowing you to troubleshoot issues, monitor activity, and gather information about the pod's behavior.


## A StatefulSet manages the deployment and scaling of a set of pods, and maintains a sticky identity for each of their Pods, ensuring that each Pod has a persistent identity and storage.

## A DaemonSet ensures that a copy of a specific Pod runs on all (or some) nodes in the cluster. It is particularly useful for deploying system-level applications that provide essential services across the nodes in a cluster, such as log collection, monitoring, or networking services.


The output from ```kubectl get daemonsets```  provides information about the DaemonSet named "my-daemonset" in your Kubernetes cluster.

__*NAME*__: The name of the DaemonSet, which is "my-daemonset" in this case.

__*DESIRED*__: The desired number of DaemonSet pods.

__*CURRENT*__: The current number of DaemonSet pods running. 

__*READY*__: The number of DaemonSet pods that are ready and available for use. 

__*UP-TO-DATE*__: The number of DaemonSet pods that are up-to-date with the latest configuration.

__*AVAILABLE*__: The number of DaemonSet pods that are available for use.

__*NODE SELECTOR*__: Specifies which nodes in the cluster the DaemonSet should run on. In this case, it's set to <none>, meaning the DaemonSet is not restricted to specific nodes.

__*AGE*__: The age of the DaemonSet, indicating how long it has been running.
